>> Sarah Drasner: So
let's talk about shape.
Shape is really important.
We started talking about triangles.
But there's all sorts of other pieces of
shapes that are really interesting and
important to understand.
One thing is that circles draw
your eye more than other shapes.
If you look at all of
the shapes lined up here,
your eye probably keeps reverberating back
to that circle whether you like it or not.
That actually is a thing.
So there's this idea that's called
saccade where even when you're looking at
one image, your eye is constantly scanning
around in an event called saccade.
So it's always creating a spacial or
a mental map of what it's seeing.
And I talk about this a lot
because it's really important.
That kind of scanning event is
where we pick up on certain things.
I mean, there are some things that
are more important than others.
Things that are moving are the most
important because if you are predator or
prey, which we are both of.
You want to either eat things that move or
run away from things that move.
So if something's moving,
your eye is like whoa whoa whoa go pay
attention to that before anything else.
We also notice bright colors,
because fruits, berries, we eat those too.
So if you ever have like an accent that's
a bright color that you want to draw
someone's eye to, that's important.
But it's also important because
of the circle concept, and
the reason why they think
that circles draw your eye.
So this is a kind of map using,
they actually scanned this person's
eye and kind of drew where the person
is looking while they're creating
that saccade shape with their eye.
So as they're scanning around, you can see
that they're scanning my entire face and
they kind of scan in a circle, but then
they get really drawn into the eye, right?
They get there's like a lot of kind
of saccade material right in the eye.
So both face and eyes have circles, and
that's probably why circles draw us in so
much is because your brain is like,
wait, I need to maybe recognize
this person and understand a face.
And that's also why humans
see faces everywhere,
you know they have those books of like
inanimate objects that are faces.
We love that, we just can't get
enough of this like idea that
clothing hook is like an octopus
who wants to fight us.
Or an outlet is like a smiling person or
something like that.
Okay, so this looks like it lines up.
But really the circle lives
a bit outside of that line.
If I line the circle up
perfectly with that line,
it would look like it was tucked in.
It would look like it wasn't lined up.
For some reason the edge of that
circle is compensated by our eye.
So if you do use a circle what you might
end up finding is that you're using
margin left, negative five, or something
to just push it out just a little bit.
And that will actually make it look
like it's compensated appropriately.
Diagonals are really dynamic.
We also really love diagonals and
we see them again and
again actually in architecture.
As like, whenever we're like this
is the supreme version of x thing,
it's usually got a diagonal in it,
we don't use them a lot on the web though.
But I'm gonna show you how
you can make them in code so
that you can use them on your sites.
We're still stuck in table based
layouts even though we're not
in table based layout land anymore.
So we can talk about how it just shows up.
Any time people are like,
the greatest blah!
It's usually got a diagonal in it.
There's all these examples, you'll start
to see those everywhere as well too.
Partially because we don't see them quite
as often now, little bit more rare.
So if you wanna have
a dynamic composition that
isn't like a lot of other compositions
out there, throwing a diagonal in,
it's a pretty good way of doing that.
This Swiss design that I mentioned
earlier made lots of uses of diagonals.
They used grid systems all the time.
But they also crossed
through those grid systems,
breaking them up with diagonals, too.